Overfish alert

1. Define a point at which, based on rate of fishing, the population can no longer recover/endure

deterministic extinction model:

dp/dt = chp (1-p)-ep

WCPFC data, fishing effort and fish caught in tonnes and numbers over time.
Using tonnes instead of numbers because average weight per fish is an indicator of population health. 

[maybe compare that over time too??see how ratio of weight/numbers has changed?]

2. Determine how long it will take to reach that point.	




My application has moved away from a business aimed model and towards a public aimed app that would provide information on the current state of fish populations and based on their rate of change in population whether they are safe to eat or not. 

- Hoping to incorporate some predictive feature as well but that is limited to time constraints.  


So, I have clustered my fish (200 species, global) into 3 clusters which, when analysed, fall nicely into 'avoid', 'caution' and 'safe'. 

K Means: based on mortality rate over sustainable mortality rate and biomass over exploitable biomass. Maybe add more?
eg, change in biomass over last 10 years. 

The project does not acocunt for climate changes, it is primarily focused on human action as that is something that can be directly and immediately rectified and monitored. 

I filled in gaps in the data using the median value, and 
neural net to predict the next decade of fish stocks based on the current rate of change and change in rate of change of fish stocks. 



-- 


The stock of the sea has been declining at a severe rate since the 50s and 60s and despite the available evidence, not enough action is being taken to rectify this problem. At first my aim was to see whether I could predict overfishing earlier than is currently possible, but as the state of so many fish populations is already dire, I decided it may be more prudent to start with an app that tells people straight away whether they should or should not eat a type of fish and also provide them with graphics to explicitly show the decline of endangered fish populations in the previous 50 years. Change comes from the masses. 



